Chapter One: The Boy Who Lived

Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t hold with such nonsense.

Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.

The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had one secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn’t think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t met for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn’t have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters ever came to Privet Drive. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boy was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with a child like that.

When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.

None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window. 

At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley goodbye but missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls. “Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He got into his car and backed out of the driveway.

It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something peculiar—a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr. Dursley didn’t realize what he had seen—then he jerked his head around to look again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What could he have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his rearview mirror. It was now reading the signpost, Privet Drive—no, looking at the signpost; cats couldn’t read maps or signposts. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove on, he saw more owls—he’d never seen owls during the daytime before. Owls of all shapes and sizes were flitting past and even though it was midday, he could see a few stars in the sky. Perhaps it was a trick of the light, he thought again.

But at the traffic lights, Mr. Dursley saw that the owls were not the only strange things. The people standing on the pavement below were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear to hear what they were saying; he was sure it was something to do with the Potters. He hurried on, trying to ignore the whispers, but it wasn’t easy. He heard the words “Potters, yes,” and “their son, Harry.”

Mr. Dursley jammed on his brakes. His heart did a somersault. Harry, that was the boy’s name. He had never even seen him. This boy was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with a child like that.

He turned the car around and drove back to Privet Drive. He saw the cat again, this time sitting on a garden wall. He stared at it, and it stared back. He knew what he had to do. He had to find out what was going on. He got out of the car and walked towards the cat. The cat, however, simply blinked and then turned into a tall, thin woman with a long, flowing cloak. Mr. Dursley gasped. He knew this woman. She was Professor McGonagall, the headmistress of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. He had seen her before, but never in this form. He had always thought she was a normal, if eccentric, old woman. He was wrong. She was a witch. And she was here, on Privet Drive. He had to get away. He ran back to his car and drove off, leaving Professor McGonagall standing alone on the garden wall.

Professor McGonagall watched him go. She sighed. It was going to be a long night. She looked up at the sky. More owls. She shook her head. This was not going to be easy. She had to wait for Albus Dumbledore. He was the only one who could explain what was happening. She sat down on the garden wall and waited.

Soon, a tall, thin man with a long, silver beard appeared out of thin air. He was Albus Dumbledore. Professor McGonagall stood up. “Albus,” she said. “Are the rumors true?”

“I’m afraid so, Minerva,” said Dumbledore. “The good, and the bad.”

“And the boy?”

“Harry Potter,” said Dumbledore. “He is to be brought here, to his aunt and uncle. They are his only living relatives.”

“You can’t mean it,” said Professor McGonagall. “These people are the worst Muggles imaginable. They’ll never understand him. He’ll be miserable there.”

“It is the only way,” said Dumbledore. “He must be protected. And he will be safe with them. For now.”

“You think so?”

“I do,” said Dumbledore. “And now, we wait.”

They waited. And waited. And waited. Finally, a giant of a man, with a long, shaggy beard and twinkling black eyes, appeared out of the sky on a flying motorcycle. He was Rubeus Hagrid, the keeper of keys and grounds at Hogwarts. He was carrying a bundle in his arms. A baby. Harry Potter.

Hagrid landed the motorcycle gently on the street. He got off and walked towards Dumbledore and McGonagall. “Evening, Professor Dumbledore, Professor McGonagall,” he said. “Professor Snape sent me.”

“Snape?” said Dumbledore. “Why Snape?”

“He said he had something for you,” said Hagrid. He handed Dumbledore a letter. Dumbledore read it. His eyes twinkled. “Ah, yes,” he said. “Snape. Of course.”

“And the boy?” said McGonagall.

“He’s asleep,” said Hagrid. “Couldn’t wake him. Poor little fella.”

“Give him here, Hagrid,” said Dumbledore. Hagrid handed Harry to Dumbledore. Dumbledore looked down at the sleeping baby. “He’ll be famous,” he said. “There won’t be a child in our world who doesn’t know his name.”

“Exactly,” said McGonagall. “He’s the Boy Who Lived.”

And so, on that dull, gray Tuesday, Harry Potter arrived at Privet Drive. He was left on the doorstep of number four, Privet Drive, where he would spend the next eleven years of his life. He was the Boy Who Lived, and he was about to embark on a journey that would change his life forever.
